you
this lecture is about the texture
categorization in this lecture we're
going to talk about the text of
categorization this is a very important
technique for text to data mining and
analytics it is relevant to discovery of
various different kinds of knowledge as
shown here first is related to top two
mining and analysis and that's because
it has to do with analyzing text data
based on some predefined the topics
secondly it's also related to opinion
mining and sentiment analysis which has
to do is discovering knowledge about the
observer the human sensor because we can
categorize the authors for example based
on the content of the articles that they
have written we can in general
categorize the observer based on the
content that they produce finally it's
also related to text based or prediction
because we can often use text or
categorization techniques to predict
some variables in the real world that
are only remotely related to text data
and so this is a very important
technique for text of data mining this
is the overall plan for covering the
topic first we're going to talk about
what is text a category dishing and why
we are interested in doing that in this
lecture and now we're going to talk
about how to do text categorization
followed by how to evaluate the
categorization results so the problem of
text categorization is defined as
follows
we're given a set of predefined
categories possible forming our
hierarchy also and often also a set of
training examples or training set of
labeled text objects which means the
text objects have already been labeled
with known categories and then the task
is to classify any text object into one
or more of these predefined categories
so the picture on this slide shows what
happens when we do texture
categorization we have a lot of textural
objects to be processed by a
categorization system and the system
will in general assign categories to
these documents as soon on the right and
the categorization results and we often
assume the availability of training
examples and these are the documents
that are tagged with known categories
and these examples are very important
for helping the system to learn patterns
in different categories and this would
further help the system then know how to
recognize the categories of new texture
objects that it has not seen so here are
some specific examples of text
categorization and in fact there are
many examples here are just a few
so first text objects can vary so we can
categorize a document or a passage or
sentence or collections of text as in
the case of clustering the units to be
analyzed can vary a lot so this creates
a lot of possibilities secondly
categories can also vary and we can
generate distinguish two kinds of
categories one is internal categories
and these are categories that
characterize the content of the text
object for example topic categories or
sentiment the categories and they
generally have to do with the content of
the text objects direct the
characterization of the content there
kind of external categories that can
characterize the entity associated with
the text object for example authors are
entities associated with the content
that they produce and so we can use
their content determining which author
has written which part for example
and that's called Arthur HP she or we
can have any other meaningful categories
associated with text data as long as
there is a direct there was a meaningful
connection between the entity and text
data for example we might collect a lot
of reviews about a restaurant or a lot
of reviews about a product and then
these text there are can help us infer
properties of a product or a restaurant
in that case we can treat this as a
categorization problem we can categorize
restaurants or categorized products
based on their corresponding reviews so
this is example of a Nostromo category
here are some specific examples of
applications news categorization is very
common has been started a lot news
agencies would like to assign predefined
categories to to categorize news
generator every day and literature
article categorizations are not
important tasks for example in
biomedical domain this is mash
annotations mesh stands for medical
subject heading and it's LAN ecology of
terms to characterize content of
literature articles in detail
another example work aging spam email or
detection or filtering so we often have
a spam filter to help us distinguish
spams from legitimate emails and this is
a clearly a binary classification
problem
sentimental categorization of product
reviews or tweets is yet another kind of
applications where we can categorize
company to positive or negative or
positive and negative and/or or neutral
right so you can have seven sentiment
categories assign the true text content
another application is the automatic
email routing or sorting so you might
want to automatic result your emails
into different folders and that's one
application of the text categorization
where each folder is a category there is
also another important kind of
applications of routing emails to the
right person to handle so in help desk
email message here is generally routed
to a particular person to handle
different people tend to handle
different kind of requests and in many
cases a person would manually assign the
messages to the right people but you can
imagine you can build a automatic attack
stroke air-conditioning system to help
routing requests and this is to classify
the incoming requests into one of the
categories where each category actually
cause corresponds to a person to handle
the request and finally after each being
as I just mentioned is yet another
application and and it's another example
of using text to actually infer
properties of some other entities and
there are also many variants of the
problem formulation and so first we have
the simplest case which is a binary
calculation where there are like two
categories and there are many examples
like that information retrieval or
search engine applications would want to
distinguish relevant documents from non
relevant documents for to keep track
we're a spam filter is interested in
distinguishing spans from non spams
so also two categories sometimes
classification of opinions can be
integrated with positive and a negative
a more general case would be key
category categorization and there are
also many applications like that there
could be more than two categories so
topical categorization is often such
example where you have multiple topics
email routing
would be another example when you may
have multiple folders or if you route
the email to the right person to handle
it then there are multiple people to
classify so in all these cases there are
more than
two categories another variation is to
have hierarchical categorization where
category is a form of hierarchy again
topical hierarchy is very common yet
another variations join the
categorization that's when you have
multiple categorization tasker's about
related and then you hope to kind of do
join the categories try to leverage the
dependency of these tasks to improve
accuracy for each individual task now
among all these binary categorization is
most fundamental and partly also because
it's a simple and partly it's because it
can actually be used to perform all the
other categories in tasks for example on
K category categorization task can be
actually performed by using binary
calculation and basically we can look at
each category separately and then the
binary catherization problem is whether
object is in this category or not
meaning in other categories and the
hierarchical category categorization can
also be done by progressively doing a
flat categorization at each level so we
can first categorize all the objects in
tune it's a small number of high-level
categories and then inside each category
we can further categorize into
subcategories etc so why is text
conversion important I already show that
you are several applications but in
general there are several reasons one is
textile categorization helps us enrich
attacks of representation and that's to
achieve more understanding of text data
that's always useful for text analysis
so now with categorization text can be
represented in multiple levels meaning
keyword a bag of words replenishing
that's often used for a lot of text text
processing tasks but we can also add a
categories and they provide a two levels
of representation
cementec your categories assigned that
can also be directly or indirectly
useful for application so for example
sending in the categories could be
already very useful or also attribution
might be directly useful and another
example is when semantical categories
can facilitate aggregation of text
content and this is another case of
applications of text categorization for
example we if we want to know the
overall opinions about a product we
could first categorize the opinions in
each individual review as positive or
negative and then that would allow us to
easily aggregate all the sentiments and
the hotels about the 70% of the reviews
are positive and Phillips and not
negative etc so without doing
categorization will be much harder to
aggregate such opinions so it provides a
concise way of coding text in some sense
based on our vocabulary and sometimes
you may see in some applications text of
categorization is called a text coded
encoding with some controlled vocabulary
the Sigma kind of reasons is to use text
categorization to infer properties of
entities and textual categorization
allows us to infer the properties of
such entities that are associated with
text data so this means we can use text
categorization to discover knowledge
about the world in general as long as we
can associate the entity with text data
we can always use the text data to help
categorize the corresponding entities so
it's useful think about the information
network that will connect the other
entities whose text data the obvious
entities that can be directly connected
are authors but you can also imagine the
author's affiliations or those
ages and other things can be actually
connected to texts that are indirectly
once we have make the connection then we
can make prediction about those and
values so this is a general way to allow
us to use text mining - sorry text
categorization to discover knowledge
about the world very useful especially
in big data analytics where we are
interested in using text there is extra
census data factor from humans through
infer sorting decision factors often
together with natural data specifically
tax sort of example we can also think of
examples of inferring Popular's of
entities for example discovery of
non-native speakers of a language and
this can be done by categorizing the
content of speakers another example is
to predict the party affiliation of a
partition based on the political speech
and this is again an example of using
text data to infer some knowledge about
the world in nature this all but the
problems are all the same and that's as
we defined and it's a text
categorization